Now, let's take a look at how data storage in Azure
Data Lake Storage works. Azure Data Lake Storage is a Hadoop compatible
data repository that can store any
size or type of data. This storage service is
available as Generation 1, Gen 1, or Generation 2, Gen 2. Data Lake Storage Gen 1 users don't have to
upgrade to Gen 2, but without an upgrade, they do forego some benefits. Data Lake Storage is
designed to store massive amounts of data
for big data analytics. As an example, consider
Contoso Life Sciences, Accounts and Research Center, they analyze petabytes
of genetic data, patient data, and records
of related sample data. Data Lake Storage Gen 2
reduces computation times, making the research faster
and less expensive. The compute aspect that sits
above this storage can vary. The aspect can include
platforms like HDInsight, Hadoop, and Azure Databricks. Here are the key features of Data Lake Storage,
unlimited scalability, Hadoop compatibility, security support for access-control
lists or ACLs, POSIX compliance and optimized Azure Blob Filesystem, ABFS, driver that's designed
for big data analytics, zone redundant storage and
geo-redundant storage. To ingest data into
your data lake system, use Azure Data Factory, Apache Sqoop, Azure Storage
Explorer, the AzCopy tool, PowerShell or Visual Studio, to use the File
Upload feature to import file sizes
above two gigabyte, use PowerShell or Visual Studio. AzCopy supports a maximum
file size of one terabyte and automatically
splits data files that exceed 200 gigabytes. In Data Lake Storage Gen 1, data engineers query data by
using the U-SQL language. In Gen 2, use the Azure Blob Storage API or the Azure Data Lake
System, ADLS, API. Because Data Lake Storage supports Azure Active
Directory ACLs, security administrators
can control data access by using the familiar active
directory security groups. Role-Based Access
Control, or RBAC, is available both
in Gen 1 and Gen 2. Built-in security
groups include, read-only users,
right access users, and full access users. Enable the firewall to limit traffic to only Azure services. Data Lake Storage
automatically encrypts data at rest, protecting
data privacy.