Azure provides many Data
Platform technologies to meet the needs of
Common Data varieties. Let's take a brief review of
the two broad types of data, structured data and
unstructured data. We will start by looking
at structured data. In relational database systems
like Microsoft SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, and
Azure SQL Data Warehouse, Data Structure is
defined at design time. Data structure is designed
in the form of tables. This means it's designed before any information is
loaded into the system. The Data Structure includes
the relational model, table structure, column
width, and data types. Relational systems reacts slowly to changes in data requirements because the structural
database needs to change every time a data
requirement changes. When new columns are added, you might need to bulk update all existing records to populate the new columns
throughout the table. Relational systems typically use a querying language such
as transact SQL, T-SQL. Examples of unstructured
data include binary, audio and image files. Unstructured data is stored
in non-relational systems, commonly called unstructured
or no SQL systems. In non-relational systems, the data structure
isn't defined at design time and data is typically loaded
in its raw format. The data structure is defined
only when the data is read. The difference in the
definition point gives you flexibility to use the same source data
for different outputs. Non-relational systems
can also support semi-structured data such
as JSON file formats. The open source world offers four types of NoSQL databases. They are key-value store, stores key-value pairs of
data in a table structure. Document database stores
documents that are tied with metadata to
a document searches. Graph database finds
relationships between data points by using a structure that's composed of
vertices and edges. Column database stores data based on columns
rather than rows. Columns can be defined
at the queries runtime allowing flexibility in the data that's
returned performance. Now that you've
reviewed data types, the next step is to look at common data platform
technologies that facilitate the storage, processing and querying
of these data types.