Azure storage accounts are the base
storage type within Azure. Azure storage offers a very scalable
object store for data objects and file system services in the cloud. It can also provide a messaging store for
reliable messaging or it can act as a no sequel store. Azure storage offers four
configuration options. Azure blob, a scalable object store for
text and binary data. Azure files, managed file shares for
cloud or on premises deployments. Azure queue, a messaging store for reliable messaging between
application components. Azure table and no sequel store for
no schema storage of structured data. You can use Azure storage as the storage
basis when you are provisioning a data platform technology such as Azure Data
lake storage and HD insight. But you can also provisions Azure storage
for standalone use for example, you provision an Azure blob store either as
standard storage in the form of magnetic disk storage or is premium storage in
the form of solid state drives, SSDs. Now let's take a look at some definitions
that focus on Azure blob storage. If you need to provision a data
store that will store but not query data your cheapest option is to
set up a storage account as a blob store. Blob storage works well with images and
unstructured data, and it's the cheapest way
to store data in Azure. It also provides rest API and SDK for
Azure storage in various languages. And supported code languages include .net,
java, node, python PHP ruby and go. Azure storage also supports
scripting in Azure Power Shell and in the Azure command line interface. Data ingestion, to ingest data into
your system use Azure Data factory storage Explorer, the AzCopy tool,
Power Shell or visual studio. If you use the file upload feature to
import file sizes above two gigabytes, use Power Shell or Visual Studio. AzCopy supports a maximum
file size of one terabyte and automatically splits Data
files that exceed 200 GB. If you create a storage account as a blob
store, you can't query the data directly. To directly query the data, either
move the data to a store that supports queries or set up the Azure storage
account for a data lake storage. Azure storage encrypts all
data that's written to it. Azure storage also provides you with fine
grain control over who has access to your data. You'll secure the data by using keys or
shared access signatures. Azure resource manager
provides a permissions model that uses role-based access control,
RBAC. Use this functionality to set permissions
and assign roles to users groups or applications.