Azure SQL Database is a managed relational
database service. It supports structures such
as relational data and unstructured formats such
as spatial and XML data. SQL database provides online
transaction processing, OLTP, that can scale on demand. You'll also find
comprehensive security and availability in
Azure Database Services. In this lesson, you will look
at the Azure SQL Database, the PaaS database offering. You will cover local
Microsoft SQL Server or those within an Azure
Virtual Machine, VM. Although these are similar, the configuration of benefits of Microsoft SQL Server differ from those of Azure
SQL Database. Use SQL database when
you need to scale up and scale down OLTP
systems on-demand. SQL database is a good solution
when your organization wants to take advantage of Azure security and
availability features. Organizations that
choose SQL database also avoid the risks of capital expenditures
and of increasing operational spending on
complex on-premises systems. SQL database can be more
flexible than on-premises SQL server solution because you can provision and
configure it in minutes. Even more, SQL
database is backed up by the Azure service
level agreement, SLA. These are the key features
of Azure SQL Database. SQL database delivers
predictable performance for multiple resource types, service tiers, and
compute sizes. Requiring almost
no administration, it provides dynamic
scalability with no downtime, built in intelligent
optimization, global scalability
and availability, and advanced security options. These capabilities of Azure
SQL Database that you focus on rapid app development and on speeding up your time to market, you do not have to
devote precious time and resources to managing virtual machines
and infrastructure. SQL database can
ingest data through application integration from a wide range of developer STKs. Allied programming
languages include.Net, Python, Java, and Node.js. Beyond applications,
you can also ingest data through
Transact-SQL, T-SQL, techniques, and from the movement of data
using Azure Data Factory. Use T-SQL to query the
contents of a SQL database. This method benefits
from a wide range of standard SQL
features to filter, order, and project the data
into the form you need. Azure SQL Database helps your application
meet security and compliance requirements
with a range of built-in features such as
advanced threat protection, SQL database auditing,
data encryption, Azure Active Directory
authentication, Multi-Factor authentication, and compliance certification.