Welcome to this lesson
where you will explore the definition of Azure
Synapse Analytics. Azure Synapse Analytics is a Cloud-based data platform that brings together enterprise
data warehousing and big data analytics. It can also process massive
amounts of data and answer complex business
questions with limitless scale. Look at some common use cases
of Azure Synapse Analytics. Data loads can increase
the processing time for on-premises data warehousing descriptive analytic solutions. Organizations that face
this issue might look to a Cloud-based
alternative to reduce processing time and release business intelligence
reports faster. But many organizations first consider scaling up
on-premises servers. As this approach reaches
its physical limits, they look for a solution
on a petabyte scale that doesn't involve complex
installations and configurations. The SQL pools capability of Azure Synapse Analytics
can meet this need. The volume and variety of
data that is being generated provides opportunities
to perform different types of
analysis on the data. This can include
techniques such as exploratory data analysis to identify initial patterns
or meanings in the data. It can also include conducting predictive analytics for
forecasting or segmenting data. The big data analytics
capability of Azure Synapse Analytics
will accommodate this. Let's explore the key features of Azure Synapse Analytics. SQL pools uses massively
parallel processing or MPP to quickly run queries
across petabytes of data. Because the storage is separated
from the compute nodes, you can scale the compute nodes independently to meet
any demand at anytime. In Azure Synapse Analytics, the Data Movement
Service or DMS, coordinates and transports data between compute
nodes as necessary. But you can use a
replicated table to reduce data movement and
improve performance. Azure Synapse Analytics
supports three types of distributed tables: hash,
round-robin, and replicated. Use these tables to
tune performance. Most importantly, Azure
Synapse Analytics can also pause and resume
the compute layer. This means you pay only for
the computation you use. This capability is useful
in data warehousing. Azure Synapse Analytics
uses the Extract, Load and Transform or ELT
approach for bulk data. SQL Professionals are
already familiar with bulk copy tools such as BCP
and the SQL bulk copy API. Data engineers who work with
Azure Synapse Analytics will soon learn how quickly
PolyBase can load data. PolyBase is a technology that removes complexity
for data engineers. They take advantage of techniques for big
data ingestion and processing by offloading complex calculations
to the Cloud. Finally, developers use PolyBase to apply stored procedures, labels, views, and SQL
to their applications. You can also use
Azure Data Factory to ingest and process data
using PolyBase tool. As a data engineer, you can use the familiar
transact SQL to query the contents of
Azure Synapse Analytics. This method takes advantage
of a wide range of features, including the where, order by, and group by clauses. You can load data fast by
using PolyBase with additional transact SQL constructs such
as create table and select. Azure Synapse Analytics supports both SQL Server Authentication and Azure Active Directory. For high security environments, setup multifactor
authentication. From a data perspective, Azure Synapse Analytics
Support security at the level of both
columns and rows.