To round out your understanding of
offerings on the Azure data platform, let's take a quick look at Azure
databricks, data factory, and data catalog. Databricks is a serverless platform
that's optimized for Azure, it provides one click setup,
streamlined workflows, and an interactive workspace for
spark based applications. Databreaks adds capabilities
to Apache spark, including fully managed spark clusters and
an interactive workspace. You can use rest APIs to program clusters. In Databricks notebooks, you'll use
familiar programming tools such as ur, python, scala, and sequel. Role based security and
Azure active directory and databricks provides
enterprise grade security. Next, we will look at Azure data dactory. Azure data factory is
a cloud integration service. It orchestrates the movement of
data between various data stores. The purpose of Azure data factory
is to retrieve data from one or more data sources and
convert it into a format that you process. The data sources might present
data in different ways and contain noise that you need to filter out. You can create data driven workflows
in the cloud to orchestrate and automate data movement and
data transformation. You can use data factory to create and
schedule data driven workflows called pipelines, that can ingest
data from data stores. Data factory processes and transforms data
by using compute services such as Azure HD insight, Hadoop, Spark, and
Azure Machine learning. It publishes output data to data stores
such as Azure synapse analytics, so that business intelligence
applications can consume the data. Ultimately, you use data
factory to organize raw data into meaningful data stores and
data lakes, so your organization can make
better business decisions. Finally, let's look at data catalog. Analysts, data scientists, developers,
and others used data catalog to discover, understand, and consume data sources. And data catalog also features
a crowdsourcing model of metadata and annotations. In this central location and
organizations, users contribute their knowledge to build
a community of data sources that are owned by the organization. Data catalog is a fully
managed Cloud service. Users discover and
explore data sources, and they help the organization document
information about their data sources. It is important to note that
the data catalog will soon be replaced by Azure purview. This is a unified data governance
service that helps you manage and govern your on premises, multi cloud,
and software as a service, SAAS data. And you can also easily create a holistic,
up-to-date map of your data landscape. With automated data discovery,
sensitive data classification, and end to end data lineage,
select the hyperlink to discover more.