When traditional hardware
and infrastructure components near the end
of their life cycle, many organizations embark on digital transformation projects. You'll now consider options
for those transformations. You look at features of both on-premises and
cloud environments. You'll also cover the
factors that businesses must consider as they
explore each option. The computing
environment, on-premises environments require
equipment to execute applications
and services. This equipment includes servers, infrastructure, and storage. It all needs power
cooling and maintenance. A server needs at least one
operating system or OS. More than one of
the organization uses virtualization technology. Licensing, each OS installed on a server may have
a licensing cost. OS and software licenses
are typically sold per server or per CAL,
Client Access License. As companies grow, licensing
becomes more restrictive. Maintenance, on-premises systems require maintenance
for hardware, firmware, drivers, BIOS,
operating systems, software, and
antivirus software. Scalability. When
administrators can no longer scale up a server, they can instead scale
out their operations. To scale an on-premises
server horizontally, server administrators add another server
node to a cluster. Clustering uses
either a hardware or software load balancer to distribute incoming
network requests to a node of the cluster. A limitation of server
clustering is that the hardware for each server in the cluster must be identical. Therefore, when
the server cluster reaches maximum capacity, each node in the cluster needs to be replaced
or upgraded. Availability. High
availability systems must be available
most of the time. Service-level agreements or SLAs specify the availability
expectations. System uptime can be expressed
as 3/9, 4/9, or 5/9. These expressions indicate
system percentage uptimes of 99.9, 99.99, or 99.999. Multiply these percentages by the number of hours in a year, 8,760, to calculate
system uptime hours. The more uptime
the SLA requires, the higher the cost. Support. Hundreds of vendors sell physical server hardware. This means administrators might need to know about many
different platforms. Diverse skills are
required to administer, maintain, and support
on-premises systems. Organizations sometimes
have difficulty finding qualified
server administrators. Multilingual support. In on-premises SQL
Server systems, multilingual support is
difficult and expensive. One issue with
multiple languages is the sorting
order of text data. Different languages can
sort text data differently. To address this, the SQL
Server database administrator must install and configure the
data's collation settings. But these settings
can work only if the SQL database
developers considered multilingual functionality
when designing the system. Systems like this are complex
to manage and maintain. Total cost of ownership or TCO describes the final cost of
owning a given technology. In on-premises systems,
TCO includes costs such as hardware, software
licensing, labor, installation upgrades
and maintenance, data center overhead, power, telecommunications, building, heating, and cooling. It's difficult to align on-premises expenses
with actual usage. Organizations buy
service that have extra capacity so they can
accommodate future growth. A newly purchased
server will always have excess capacity
that isn't used. With an on-premises server
at maximum capacity, even an incremental increase in resource demand requires
purchasing more hardware. Because on-premises
servers are expensive, costs are often capitalized. On financial
statements, costs are spread over the expected
lifetime of the equipment. Capitalization restricts
an IT manager's ability to buy upgraded equipment during the lifetime of a server. This limits the ability to
accommodate increased demand. In cloud solutions, expenses are recorded on the financial
statements each month, their monthly expenses,
not capital expenses. Because subscriptions are a
different kind of expense, the expected server
lifetime doesn't limit the IT manager's ability to upgrade to meet
increasing demand. Cloud environments, the
computing environment. Cloud computing
environments provide the physical and logical
infrastructure to host services, virtual servers, intelligent applications,
and containers. Cloud environments require
no capital investment. Instead, an organization
provision service in the cloud and pays
only for what it uses. Moving servers and services to the cloud also reduces
capital expenditure. Within minutes, an
organization can provision anything
from virtual servers to clusters of
containerized apps by using Microsoft
Azure services. Azure automatically
creates and handles all the physical and logical infrastructure in
the background, reducing the complexity and cost of creating the services. On-premises servers store data on physical and virtual disks. On a cloud platform, storage is more generic. Diverse storage types
include Azure Blob Storage, Azure File Storage, and
Azure Disk Storage. Complex systems often use each type of storage as
part of their architecture. With Azure Disk Storage, customers can have a
Microsoft-managed disk storage or to pay a premium for greater
disk allocation control. Maintenance. In the Cloud, Microsoft manages
many operations to create a stable
computing environment. That's part of the Microsoft
Azure product benefit. Microsoft manages key
infrastructure services such as physical
hardware, networking, firewalls and security, data
center fault tolerance, compliance, and physical
security of the buildings. Microsoft also invests
heavily defending against cybersecurity
threats and updates the customer's operating
systems and firmware, allowing data engineers to focus more on data engineering. Scalability. Scalability
in on-premises systems is complicated and
time-consuming, but scalability in the cloud can be as simple
as a mouse click. Typically, scalability
in the cloud is measured in compute units. Compute units might be defined differently for each
Microsoft Azure product. Availability. Azure
duplicates customer content for redundancy and
high availability. Many services and
platforms use SLAs to ensure that customers know the capabilities of the
platform they're using. Support. Cloud systems are easier to support because of
standardized environments. When Microsoft
updates a product, the update applies to
all its consumers. Multilingual support. Cloud systems often store
data as a JSON file that includes the language
code identifier, LCID. The LCID identifies the
language that the data uses. Apps that process the data
can use translation services, such as the Microsoft
Bing Translator API, to convert the data into
an expected language when the data is consumed or as part of a process
to prepare the data. Total cost of ownership. Cloud systems like
Microsoft Azure track cost by subscriptions. A subscription can
be based on usage measured in compute units
hours or transactions. The cost includes hardware, software, disk
storage, and labor. Because of economies of scale, an on-premises system
can rarely compete with the client in terms of the measurement of
the service usage. The cost of operating an
on-premises service system rarely aligns with the
actual usage of the system. However, in a cloud system, the cost usually aligns more closely with the actual usage. In some cases, however, those costs don't align. For example, an organization
will be charged for a service that a
cloud administrator provisions but doesn't use. This scenario is called
underutilization. Organizations can
reduce the cost of underutilization by
adopting a best practice to provision production
instances only after their developers are ready to deploy an application
to production. Developers can use tools like the Azure Cosmos DB Emulator or Azurite to develop and test cloud applications without
incurring production costs. Lift and shift. When
moving to the cloud, many customers migrate from physical or virtualized
on-premises servers to Microsoft Azure
Virtual Machines, a strategy known
as lift and shift. Server administrators lift
and shift an application from a physical environment to Azure Virtual Machines without re-architecting the application. The lift and shift strategy
provides immediate benefits. These benefits include
higher availability, lower operational costs,
and the ability to transfer workloads from one
data center to another. The disadvantage is that
the existing application can't take advantage of the many features
available within Azure. Consider using the migration as a catalyst for some
organizational re-architecture. The lift and shift can be seen as an opportunity to transform your business
practices by creating new versions of your
applications and databases. You're re-architected
application can take advantage of Azure offerings
such as cognitive services, bot service, and machine
learning capabilities.