To fully appreciate the phases of a data engineering project, let's examine a high-level
architecture example of how to holistically design a project by following the five phases. Source, ingest, prepare,
analyze, and consume. Contoso Health Network
recently deployed IoT devices to its
Intensive Care Unit, ICU. Here are the goals
of the project. Capture data on patient
bio-metric monitoring in real time to help physicians
treat their patients, store the bio-metric
data so that Contoso's Research Center can further analyze
it in the future. Use Azure Machine Learning to understand which treatments
improve the quality of care and reduce the likelihood that a patient will be
re-admitted to the hospital. Create a visualization of the data's history for Contoso's
Chief Medical Officer. After reviewing
the business case, Contoso's Technical Architect proposes the following
technologies. Azure IoT Hub to capture real-time data from
the ICU's IoT devices, Azure Stream Analytics
to stream and enrich the IoT data to create
windows and aggregations, and to integrate Azure
Machine Learning. Azure Data Lake
Storage Generation 2 to store the bio-metric
data at high-speed, Azure Data Factory to perform the extract load
transform and final load. Azure Synapse Analytics to
provide data warehousing and big data engineering services to support the Chief
Medical Officer's needs. Power BI to create the
patient dashboard. Part of the dashboard will show real-time telemetry about
the patient's condition, the other part will show the
patient's recent history, and Azure Machine Learning to process both raw and
aggregated data. Researchers will
use this to perform predictive analytics on
patient re admittance. Contoso's Data Engineer creates a work plan to implement
the ELT Operations. The plan includes a
provisioning workflow and holistic workflow. This is the
provisioning workflow. Provision Azure Data
Lake Storage Gen 2, Provision Azure
Synapse Analytics, Provision Azure IoT Hub, Provision Azure
Stream Analytics, Provision Azure
Machine Learning, Provision Azure Data Factory, and Provision Power BI. The plan for the holistic
workflow is to set up Azure IoT Hub to capture data
from the ICU IoT devices. Connect Azure IoT Hub to
Azure Stream Analytics. Set up window creation
functions for the ICU data. The functions will aggregate
the data for each window. At the same time, set
up the IoT Hub to move the streaming data to Azure Data Lake Storage
by using Azure Functions. Set up Azure Functions to store the Azure Stream
Analytics aggregates in Azure Data Lake
Storage Gen 2. Use Azure Data Factory to load data from the
Data Lake into Azure Synapse Analytics to support the Chief
Medical Officer's needs. After the data is loaded, transformations can occur
within Azure Synapse Analytics. In parallel, connect the Azure Machine
Learning Service to Azure Data Lake Storage to
perform predictive analytics. Connect Power BI to
stream analytics to pull the real-time aggregates
for the patient data. Connect Azure Synapse
Analytics to pull the historical data to
create a combined dashboard. Contoso Health
Network's project was to deploy IoT
devices to its ICU. This diagram shows a
high level visualization of the data design solution.