Large data projects
can be complex. The projects often involve
hundreds of decisions. Multiple people are typically
involved and each person helps take the project
from design to production. Roles such as business
stakeholders, business analysts, and business
intelligence developers are well-known and
still valuable. As data processing techniques
change with the technology, new roles are
starting to appear. These roles provide
specialized skills to help streamline the
data engineering process. In particular, three
roles are starting to become common in
modern data projects. Data engineer, data scientist, and artificial
intelligence AI engineer. Data engineers
provision and set of data platform technologies that are on-premises
and in the Cloud. They manage and
secure the flow of structured and unstructured
data from multiple sources. The data platforms they use can include
relational databases, non-relational databases, data
streams, and file stores. Data engineers also ensure that data services integrate
securely and seamlessly with other data platform
technologies or applications services such
as Azure Cognitive Services, Azure Search, or even bots. The Azure Data Engineer focuses on data-related
tasks in Azure. Primary responsibilities
include using services and tools to ingest, egress, and transform data
from multiple sources. Azure data engineers
collaborate with business stakeholders
to identify and meet data requirements. They design and
implement solutions. They also manage, monitor, and ensure the
security and privacy of data to satisfy
business needs. The role of data engineer
is different from the role of a database
administrator. A data engineer's scope
of work goes well beyond looking after a database and the server
where it's hosted. Data engineers must
also get, ingest, transform, validate, and clean up data to meet
business requirements. This process is called
data wrangling. A data engineer adds
tremendous value to both business intelligence
and data science projects. Data wrangling can
consume a lot of time. When the data engineer
rankles data, projects move more
quickly because data scientists can focus
on their own areas of work. Whether your role is a database administrator or business intelligence
professional, you can easily transition
to a data engineer role. You just need to
learn the tools and technology that are used to process large
amounts of data. Data scientists perform
advanced analytics to extract value from data. Their work can vary from descriptive analytics to
predictive analytics. Descriptive analytics
evaluate data through a process known as exploratory
data analysis, EDA. Predictive analytics are
used in machine learning to apply modeling
techniques that can detect anomalies or patterns. These are an important
part of forecast models. Descriptive and
predictive analytics are just one aspect of
data scientists' work. Some data scientists might even work in the realms
of deep learning. Iteratively
experimenting to solve a complex data problem by
using customized algorithms. Anecdotal evidence suggests
that most of the work in a data scientist
project is spent on data wrangling and
feature engineering. Data scientists can speed up the experimentation process when data engineers use their skills to successfully wrangle data. AI engineers work with AI services such as
cognitive services, cognitive search,
and bot framework. Cognitive services
include computer vision, text analytics, Bing search, and language
understanding, LUIS. Rather than creating models, AI engineers apply the
prebuilt capabilities of cognitive services APIs. AI engineers embed
these capabilities within a new or existing
application or bot. AI engineers rely on the
expertise of data engineers to store information
that's generated from AI. For example, an AI
engineer might be working on a computer vision application
that processes images. This AI engineer would ask a
data engineer to provision an Azure Cosmos DB
instance to store the metadata and tags that the computer vision
application generates. The roles of the data engineer, AI engineer, and data
scientists differ. Each role solves a
different problem. Data engineers primarily
provision data stores. They make sure that
massive amounts of data are securely and cost-effectively extracted,
loaded, and transformed. AI engineers add the intelligent
capabilities of vision, voice, language, and
knowledge to applications. To do this, they use the cognitive services offerings that are available
out of the box. When a cognitive
services application reaches its capacity, AI engineers call
on data scientists. Data scientists develop
machine learning models and customize components for an
AI engineer's application. Each data technology role
is distinct and each contributes an important part to digital
transformation projects.